You look around the world and we see all the buildings and facilities we have and we are amazed at what Jehovah has accomplished.
But many times we see the buildings, we hear the need for more facilities, but we may not think about what goes into making these available.
I know for me it builds my faith when I consider how Jehovah's unified people to accomplish an incredible work in these last days.
We're in a very fast moving organization and because of that there's a need for facilities worldwide.
There's always hundreds of projects going on at any given time.
There's a need for more kingdom halls now than what we thought back in 1999 when the program or lands with limited resources was started.
There's a tremendous amount of work that still has to be done.
And because of this we appreciate the prayers of our brothers and sisters and their donations and support of the work.
But we especially think of our individual brothers and sisters who offer themselves willingly to assist in the projects being done.
This is a significant responsibility and much prayer goes into the process.
We look at Jehovah because we want to be sure that what is finally produced in the best possible way accomplishes his purpose.
When we look for property, first of all we have to clearly establish what we're looking for, the size of the property, the location, other factors such as accessibility, where the utility is located.
We form property search teams that investigate all the properties in the search area.
Then there's often a lot of investigations as to the impact on the environment. We need to do soil tests. We need to do a legal survey.
More important than the buildings are the effect of these buildings.
It starts off often with a blank piece of paper and it provides the framework that the other disciplines can use.
Because the building needs accurate drawings and specifications so that he can take these concepts and turn them into a real physical building.
We're sitting here just designing buildings but at the same time we know that we're having an impact on our brothers and sisters and ones around the world.
We also have a team of estimators. They will take these plans when they are near completion and they will measure quantities.
They will look at various aspects like taxes and duties and eventually they'll come up with a comprehensive budget.
And then once that's approved then the project can move ahead.
We look into the local building codes regarding fire regulations, life safety regulations.
In many countries we have seismic conditions so we design the buildings so that they can withstand these kind of elements.
At the outset of a project we would like to know how much does the project cost, what's involved in the project, the scope and also how long will this project take.
We do a lot of research. We want to be sure that they're functional, that they are energy efficient and that they have as low of an impact on the environment as possible.
For the governing body to help them to visualize this project we would make some sketches in a big package for them and then we would put some images.
Just all information that they need so that they can at the end have a good picture.
You know it's not a client that you don't know. It's for your brothers and sisters and you think they want to make it the best for them so that they feel comfortable and they are happy and where they are living.
Finding out where we're going to buy the materials, deciding what materials need to be imported.
We have to see if we're going to bring in skilled volunteers locally or from overseas and whether we're going to use a contractor or not.
I'm now at Kingdom Hall construction 7. As I go home and encourage my sisters about to tell them the experiences that we share in the work.
And as time went by my sister Rita also showed interest and now she had joined me in the work.
You heal how you joke close to Jehovah. People are doing something to appreciate what Jehovah is doing for them.
So I wanted to do the thing.
Those of us that came to help out initially as the project started, we didn't have much experience.
We didn't have the technical training. We simply just need willing people.
I think I'm a good example of someone who is not suited for construction.
But doing it, you get the full benefits and you really do grow.
I'm just trained, yes, here in Better. I'm the operator of this game.
I'm still a loader in work league.
So I'm absolutely happy. I had my desire, I had my energy, I had my singleness, which I could use to serve Jehovah in the construction.
You're in the middle of nowhere where ever you go bald but you still have so much fun.
And you're all going in the same direction and the way they had the camaraderie and just the way they all got along.
And I was just like pretty much hooked.
Seeing how happy the brothers get, especially when you go to a new congregation and you see the old building or some brothers used to have their meeting in a garage.
It's quite amazing to see their happiness.
Well, after moving into our beautiful new facilities, we actually have an obligation to ensure that they stay well maintained.
This allows us to get the best use out of the investment.
When you think about the millions of dollars invested in branch facilities, remote translation offices they do need to be properly cared for,
which involves providing written instructions, a yearly maintenance schedule and also providing hands-on training for the brothers.
We've had the opportunity to visit 30 different countries. We feel that our work does make a difference.
Maintenance is not only a chore, it is sacred service. And we want to see this attitude also when we do maintenance training with the brothers.
And the goal is to keep everything in a good order for many years.
Jehovah, when he wanted to stop construction, he confused the language and he also changed the thinking pattern of people.
And here we are trying to accomplish construction with those same two issues, but with Jehovah's help, we're able to do it.
Wherever I go, there's some sort of a challenge and it's for me it's usually culture, but after a couple of weeks I'll seem to settle in or write.
And you just feel like you're part of the country and the environment and it feels like you've been there for a long time.
We are not very good at learning languages and currently right now on sites we have nine different languages and dialects.
And none of us speak fluently the other language, but Jehovah's spirit is really evident because the projects moving, things are getting done.
Every project I found myself getting homesick, I miss my children and my grandchildren.
The blessings are endless. I think the greatest one has been getting to know the international brotherhood and working with young people.
I feel like we have sons and daughters now all over the world.
Since we started to do international construction work, I had to stop the work full-time.
So going to a project I have to tell my customers that I have to stop for a little while.
Of course, some told me you cannot continue like that, you will lose all your business and you will not have work, but you have the proof to be wrong actually.
One of the main adjustments is just to simplify our lives so that we were ready.
And also you have to prepare your mind because you can get sent anywhere in the world, can be daunting to think about.
But also it is also very exciting.
With some brothers who had experienced international construction work and because of their enthusiasm and because of their joy and also their happy experiences, you really made me want to experience the same type of excitement that they had.
We have worked hard, but we have had a great time and then at the end of it all you see these beautiful buildings.
It is such a nice way to use a skill that we may have and enjoy the service and it really gives you a sense of accomplishment.
Especially when a project is finished and someone will send a picture of the finished product and they will show the local brothers sitting in their new chair with now a roof over their head, there is nothing like that feeling.
Do the job that you like for the person that you love most, Jehovah God and his organization is something that you cannot compare to anything else.
I have enjoyed my life and I wouldn't give it up for quits.
There is no border in Jehovah's organization, you all work together for one purpose and that is for Jehovah.
Yes, the work of building has had an important place in Jehovah's organization all the way down through time.
And we have seen the same in modern times, there are over 270 large projects currently needed, which includes 90 remote translation offices, 35 assembly halls, and 130 branch projects.
In addition to that, there is a need for over 13,000 kingdom hole projects worldwide.
A tremendous amount of help is needed, both in the way of donations and volunteers.
However, we are sure that Jehovah will provide what is needed through the generous spirit of our dear brothers and sisters.
Yes, Jehovah's unified people are transcending national boundaries, cultures and languages to provide facilities all to Jehovah's praise.